# Grading for Equity Podcast Reflection #
Grading based on mastery instead of behavior is ideal however certain components must be in place to do so effectively. This perspective comes out of my own experiences, however points for behavior should be implemented if the classroom behavior allows it to. For example, I could not go ahead and remove all points allotted to behavior because of the demographic of students I teach. Many of my high school students are recent immigrants of the Domincan Republic and two issues arise: 


1. the quality of education is tremendously varied in the Dominican Republic
2. students making it to the high school level having gone through school there, expect to be rewarded based on their behavior.


This set of conditions make it so that I personally cannot stop giving points towards behavior. Due to the fact that the quality of education varies in the Domincan Republic, some students do not understand appropriate behavior in a classroom. This is due to lack of schooling, or awareness of how their behavior can be considered disruptive (perhaps due to cultural differences). To make expectations clear, I design a classroom rule list with student input but I need to put value behind following these rules since it does not come innate in them. This then forces me to place point values towards behavior. Only then do students also see value in following the rules since a numerical grade is a concept they are familiar with. The other issue is that many students that come from the Domincan Republic expect to be rewarded for their good behavior. This has been pre-conditioned in them since a young age. So when students are not rewarded points for behavior, they begin to complain and conduct disruptive behaviors instead. So while in these cases I allot a small amount of points, it still is integral for certain student expectations. In conclusion, I think the shift to mastery based grading is definietly more equitable, it cannot be applied ubiquitously without taking into account the vast diversity found within NYC public schools.
